# Introduction to Data Modelling 
I have joined Udacity Data Engineer Nanodegree. The program consists of many real-world projects. In the project, I have the role of a Data Engineer at a fabricated data streaming company called “Sparkify”. It is a startup and wants to analyze the data they’ve been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. Currently, they don’t have an easy way to query their data, which resides in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

They’d like a data engineer to create a Postgres database with tables designed to optimize queries on song play analysis and bring me on the project. My role is to create a database schema and ETL pipeline for this analysis. I’ve tested my database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to me by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare my results with their expected results.

# Project Description
In this project, I’ve applied what I’ve learned on data modeling with Postgres and build an ETL pipeline using Python. I’ve defined fact and dimension tables for a star schema for a particular analytic focus and written an ETL pipeline that transfers data from files in two local directories into these tables in Postgres using Python and SQL.

# Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song’s track ID. Below is what a single song file looks like.

```
{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}
```

# Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.
The log files in the dataset you’ll be working with are partitioned by year and month. Below is what a single log file looks like.



# The schema for the Song Play Analysis
Using the song and log datasets, I’ve created a star schema optimized for queries on song play analysis. This includes the following tables.

## Fact Table
**songplays —** records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page `NextSong`
*songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent*

## Dimension Tables
**users —** users in the app
*user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level*

**songs —** songs in the music database
*song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration*

**artists —** artists in the music database
*artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude*

**time —** timestamps of records in songplays broken down into the specific unit
*start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday*

I added constrains and condition to the columns when creating the relational database. Below is the schema diagram for `Sparkify Database`



